1. Who asked Sañjaya about the events at Kurukṣetra?

A) Bhīṣma
B) Arjuna
C) Dhṛtarāṣṭra
D) Duryodhana
Answer: C) Dhṛtarāṣṭra


2. Who did Duryodhana speak to after observing the army of the Pāṇḍavas?

A) Kṛṣṇa
B) Bhīma
C) His teacher - Dronacharya 
D) His father - Drithrashtra
Answer: C) His teacher


3. Who arranged the Pāṇḍava army in military formation?

A) Bhīma
B) Drupada's son - Dhrishtadyumna
C) Kṛṣṇa
D) Yudhāmanyu
Answer: B) Drupada's son


4. Which warrior did Duryodhana mention as powerful and heroic, like Bhīma and Arjuna?

A) Yuyudhāna
B) Nakula
C) Sañjaya
D) Yudhāmanyu
Answer: A) Yuyudhāna


5. TEXT-10 : "Our strength is immeasurable, and we are perfectly protected by Grandfather Bhīṣma, whereas the strength of the Pāṇḍavas, 
carefully protected by _________, is limited".

A) Kṛṣṇa
B) Bhīma
C) Droṇa
D) Bhīṣma
Answer: B) Bhīma


6. Who blew his conchshell loudly, causing joy to Duryodhana?

A) Bhīṣma
B) Karṇa
C) Aśvatthāmā
D) Sañjaya
Answer: A) Bhīṣma


7. What was the name of Nakula's  conchshell?

A) Maṇipuṣpaka
B) Pauṇḍra
C) Sughoṣa 
D) Devadatta
Answer: C) Sughoṣa 


8. Which conchshell did Lord Kṛṣṇa, Arjuna, Bhima, Yudhiṣṭhira blow respectively?

A) Pāñcajanya, Pauṇḍra, Devadatta, Ananta-vijaya
B) Ananta-vijaya, Pāñcajanya, Pauṇḍra, Devadatta
C) Pāñcajanya, Devadatta, Pauṇḍra, Ananta-vijaya
D) Pauṇḍra, Ananta-vijaya, Pāñcajanya, Devadatta 
Answer: C) Pāñcajanya, Devadatta, Pauṇḍra, Ananta-vijaya


9. Which warrior had a chariot with a flag bearing the mark of Hanumān?

A) Duryodhana
B) Yudhiṣṭhira
C) Bhīma
D) Arjuna
Answer: D) Arjuna


10. Which sound is said to have shattered the hearts of Dhṛtarāṣṭra's sons?

A) Roar of a lion
B) Bhīṣma’s conchshell
C) Combined conchshells of the Pāṇḍavas
D) Sound of trumpets and bugles
Answer: C) Combined conchshells of the Pāṇḍavas


11. What did Arjuna request Kṛṣṇa to do with his chariot?

A) Take it to the back
B) Withdraw it from the battlefield
C) Place it between the two armies
D) Place it between the two armies
Answer: C) Place it between the two armies


12. Who is referred to as the "infallible one"?

A) Bhīṣma
B) Kṛṣṇa
C) Yudhiṣṭhira
D) Sañjaya
Answer: B) Kṛṣṇa


13. What effect did the blowing of the Pāṇḍavas' conchshells have on the sons of Dhṛtarāṣṭra?

A) It boosted their morale
B) It shattered their hearts
C) It made them retreat
D) It caused confusion in their ranks
Answer: B) It shattered their hearts


14. What was the sound made by Bhīṣma’s conchshell compared to?

A) Roar of a tiger
B) Thunder
C) Roar of a lion
D) Echoing mountains
Answer: C) Roar of a lion


15. Why did Arjuna want to see those gathered to fight?

A) To analyze their weaponry
B) To see who wanted to support Dhṛtarāṣṭra’s son
C) To pay respects
D) To admire their bravery
Answer: B) To see who wanted to support Dhṛtarāṣṭra’s son




Class - 2

1. What does Arjuna first observe in the battlefield?
a) Kṛṣṇa's divine form
b) The opposing armies running away from war
c) His friends, relatives, and well-wishers
d) The Pandavas preparing to celebrate

Answer: c) His friends, relatives, and well-wishers


2. How does Arjuna feel upon seeing his relatives ready for battle?
a) Excited
b) Overwhelmed with compassion
c) Indifferent
d) Encouraged

Answer: b) Overwhelmed with compassion



3. What physical symptom does Arjuna describe in his body?
a) His vision blurring
b) His body trembling and hair standing on end
c) A sudden burst of strength
d) His heart racing

Answer: b) His body trembling and hair standing on end



4. What happens to Arjuna's bow, Gāṇḍīva?
a) It shatters
b) It slips from his hand
c) He throws it aside
d) It begins glowing

Answer: b) It slips from his hand



5. Why does Arjuna say he is unable to stand on the battlefield?
a) He is exhausted from a prior battle
b) His mind is reeling, and he sees only misfortune
c) He is afraid of Duryodhana
d) He wants to pray before the battle

Answer: b) His mind is reeling, and he sees only misfortune


6. What does Arjuna declare he no longer desires?
a) Wealth and power
b) Kingdom, victory, or happiness
c) The blessings of Kṛṣṇa
d) Peaceful negotiations

Answer: b) Kingdom, victory, or happiness


7. According to Arjuna, what is the result of irreligion in families?
a) Unwanted progeny and societal decline
b) Increased spiritual awareness
c) Strengthened community bonds
d) Improved relationships

Answer: a) Unwanted progeny and societal decline



8. What will happen to the ancestors of families where traditions are destroyed?
a) They will ascend to higher realms
b) The ancestors of such corrupt families fall down
c) They will bless the living members of the family
d) They will reincarnate
Answer: b) The ancestors of such corrupt families fall down



9. TEXT 43: O Kṛṣṇa, maintainer of the people, I have heard _______________ that those whose family traditions are destroyed ______________.
a) By royal succession, enjoy in heavens
b) By ancestral succession, dwell always in hell
c) By friendship-based succession, enjoy in heavens
d)By disciplic succession, dwell always in hell

Answer: a) By disciplic succession, dwell always in hell


10. What does Arjuna express as a better option than killing his relatives?
a) Renouncing the kingdom
b) Being killed unarmed and unresisting
c) Seeking advice from sages
d) Surrendering to the Kauravas
Answer: b) Being killed unarmed and unresisting



11. What is Arjuna’s final action in this passage?
a) He charges into battle
b) He casts aside his bow and arrows
c) He meditates on Kṛṣṇa’s words
d) He retreats from the battlefield
Answer: b) He casts aside his bow and arrows




12.What does Arjuna refer to Kṛṣṇa as in his lament?
a) Killer of Keśī demon
b) Protector of the Pandavas
c) Lord of the heavens
d) Defender of truth
Answer: a) Killer of Keśī demon

13. What does Arjuna see as the primary cause of the upcoming misfortune?
a) His indecision
b) Greed and the destruction of family values
c) Kṛṣṇa's silence
d) Lack of proper strategy
Answer: b) Greed and the destruction of family values



14. What does Arjuna predict will happen if family traditions are destroyed?
a) Society will advance
b) Irreligion will rise, leading to chaos
c) Women will rule society
d) Families will become wealthier

Answer: b) Irreligion will rise, leading to chaos

15. Arjuna said: "My dear Kṛṣṇa, seeing my friends and relatives present before me in such a fighting spirit, 
I feel the limbs of my body _______ and my mouth _______."

a) trembling; smiling
b) strengthening; drying up
c) quivering; drying up
d) freezing; watering

Answer: c) quivering; drying up